Add Halloween 2023 Descends news post (#10256)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2023/2023-10-22-halloween-descends.md

---
layout: post
title: "Halloween 2023 Descends"
date: 2023-10-22 14:00:00 +0000
---

By the ineffable will of the Dean "peppy" Herbert, we are having Halloween right this very moment — so come check out the winners from the Halloween 2023 Fanart Contest, soon to be featured in a game client near you!

> ![](https://assets.ppy.sh/contests/186/banners/mocapixel.jpg)

Reviewer: surely this one can be cropped a little better?

![image](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/assets/36758269/fc323d73-7613-4580-b38d-fa5e602e14bc)

Author: using your crop from #osu-wiki, purged s3 so should show up soon

But with only **20** votes each to go around, the bulk of us truly felt the greatest fear Halloween truly has to offer: too many damn good choices, and not enough votes to spend for them all. It's like having an entire candy basket full of every particular treat you like — where do you even start?!

Somehow, you managed, and we now have our latest Halloween 2023 seasonal backgrounds for all to behold. But enough waffling, it's time to check out the winners:

## Finalists

[![](https://assets.ppy.sh/contests/186/banners/mocapixel.jpg)](https://assets.ppy.sh/contests/186/winners/mocapixel.png)

**2420** voters fell prey to the enchanting charms of contest veteran [**mocapixel**](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11596939)'s witch pippi! It was clear from the opening hours of the contest that this piece was going to hold a lead — and *hold it did*, with hundreds of votes practically the entire time. A stunning combination of colour work and magical magnificence really captures that quintessential Halloween feeling, all while remaining easy to look at.

> Speaking of charms, the 4th time is it for mocapixel, who earns their first top-voted finalist place with flying colours! Quite literally, in this case, because you know, witches, brooms, so on... ahem. Congratulations!

Reviewer: i dunno about this grammar

```suggestion
Speaking of charms, the 4th time it would become for mocapixel, earning their first top-voted finalist place with flying colours! Quite literally, in this case, because you know, witches, brooms, so on... ahem. Congratulations!
```

Author: would it be better to repeat something like

Speaking of charms, the 4th time really is the charm for mocapixel...

Reviewer: oh upon another reread i finally figured out how this is supposed to be parsed

```suggestion
Speaking of charms, the 4th time turned out to be it for mocapixel, who earns their first top-voted finalist place with flying colours! Quite literally, in this case, because you know, witches, brooms, so on... ahem. Congratulations!
```

Pastel prowess presides in [**tehfire**](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7082924)'s profoundly perfect painting, earning adulation from **1982** voters. Everything about this entry is simply wonderful, from the costume designs featuring the Fabulous Five (specifically pippi, Mocha, Chirou, Yuzu and the Taikonator) to simply stunning painterly brushwork and palette choices reminiscent of ethereal candy. Rumour has it that if one looks hard enough, they can perhaps see two, no... *three* stragglers sequestered somewhere special.

We expect this one will end up on a lot of people's desktops!

[![](https://assets.ppy.sh/contests/186/banners/Khize.jpg)](https://assets.ppy.sh/contests/186/winners/Khize.png)

[**Khize**](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/12736392) summoned the coven of mascots and **1955** voters joined in the call, bringing forth a witchy welcome for pippi (who also brought along a don familiar), Mocha and Chirou! It's surprising how well the osu!taiko logo works as a magic robe decal. We'll have to drum up some thought for that one.

[![](https://assets.ppy.sh/contests/186/banners/ZunK.jpg)](https://assets.ppy.sh/contests/186/winners/ZunK.png)

> **1791** voters applauded the lady of the castle at [**ZunK**](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1070783)'s behest, whom conjured a particularly impish pippi toting a monocle in a fancy gothic-inspired Halloween dress. Can she keep getting away with raising the candy taxes? With a look like that, the answer is yes, and we wouldn't have it any other way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**1791** voters applauded the lady of the castle at [**ZunK**](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1070783)'s behest, who conjured a particularly impish pippi toting a monocle in a fancy gothic-inspired Halloween dress. Can she keep getting away with raising the candy taxes? With a look like that, the answer is yes, and we wouldn't have it any other way.
```

[![](https://assets.ppy.sh/contests/186/banners/Scissors_Mori.jpg)](https://assets.ppy.sh/contests/186/winners/Scissors_Mori.png)

**1750** ghostly spirits asked which witch is which, and the answer was [**Scissors_Mori**](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/31302044)'s take on our beloved pink-fringed pippi! Witches really are vogue this year, but with costumes *this* cute, it's sort of inevitable, isn't it?

> [![](https://assets.ppy.sh/contests/186/banners/1_zero.jpg)](https://assets.ppy.sh/contests/186/winners/1_zero.png)

Reviewer: https://assets.ppy.sh/contests/186/winners/1_zero.png returns 404

Author: fixed

> Behold! **1547** voter-bats circled the spooky manor depicted by [**1 zero**](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7440794), where a witch pippi and an animal-girl jiangshi Mocha prowl looking for delicious candy treats! A terrifying ghostly feline stands guard with his broom, ready to sweep spirits and scores both.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Behold! **1547** voter bats circled the spooky manor depicted by [**1 zero**](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7440794), where a witch pippi and an animal girl jiangshi Mocha prowl looking for delicious candy treats! A terrifying ghostly feline stands guard with his broom, ready to sweep spirits and scores both.
```

[![](https://assets.ppy.sh/contests/186/banners/Amplui.jpg)](https://assets.ppy.sh/contests/186/winners/Amplui.png)

> [**Amplui**](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/24820805) wowed **1545** voters with their vivaciously vibrant and nefariously neon demon pippi! Eating an entire box of highlighter pens has never seemed to attractive until now! We're all but certain this one is really going to draw eyes in-game — a real eye-catcher for sure!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[**Amplui**](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/24820805) wowed **1545** voters with their vivaciously vibrant and nefariously neon demon pippi! Eating an entire box of highlighter pens has never seemed so attractive until now! We're all but certain this one is really going to draw eyes in-game — a real eye-catcher for sure!
```

[![](https://assets.ppy.sh/contests/186/banners/SuperSSun.jpg)](https://assets.ppy.sh/contests/186/winners/SuperSSun.png)

> **1437** voters supported [**SuperSSun**](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6972778) stupendous sketch, showcasing several spooky mascots in all of their artbook glory! It's wonderful to see artists continually playing with new styles and approaches like this, and we're looking forward to seeing what both this artist and many more to come make with their incredible creativity!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**1437** voters supported [**SuperSSun**](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6972778)'s stupendous sketch, showcasing several spooky mascots in all of their artbook glory! It's wonderful to see artists continually playing with new styles and approaches like this, and we're looking forward to seeing what both this artist and many more to come make with their incredible creativity!
```

[![](https://assets.ppy.sh/contests/186/banners/MinMin_9s.jpg)](https://assets.ppy.sh/contests/186/winners/MinMin_9s.png)

> **1375** voters were wowed by [**MinMin_9s**](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7140649)'s beautifully simplistic take on a cutesy witch pippi accompanied by her bedsheet-ghost retinue of Mocha and Aiko. The pigtails sticking out of the sheet is simply genius. Why didn't we think of that?!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**1375** voters were wowed by [**MinMin_9s**](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7140649)'s beautifully simplistic take on a cutesy witch pippi accompanied by her bedsheet ghost retinue of Mocha and Aiko. The pigtails sticking out of the sheet is simply genius. Why didn't we think of that?!
```

[![](https://assets.ppy.sh/contests/186/banners/RedcXca.jpg)](https://assets.ppy.sh/contests/186/winners/RedcXca.png)

> Fanart contest veteran [**RedcXca**](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/14056601) returns as a finalist once again, and can now proudly claim 'I maid this'. Because they put Yuzu in a maid dress, and we're frankly astonished by how well it works. Alisa in a bunny suit is also present, as well as a guest cameo from the ever-popular Doraemon for reasons we're not even going to pretend to understand, plus several trollface skull decorations. There's more hidden in this piece to boot, but I've got too many *tasks* to do to list them. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fanart contest veteran [**RedcXca**](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/14056601) returns as a finalist once again, and can now proudly claim "I maid this", because they put Yuzu in a maid dress, and we're frankly astonished by how well it works. Alisa in a bunny suit is also present, as well as a guest cameo from the ever-popular Doraemon for reasons we're not even going to pretend to understand, plus several trollface skull decorations. There's more hidden in this piece to boot, but I've got too many *tasks* to do to list them. 
```

Decoration is the name of the game in [**Triantafyllia**](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/17084594)'s piece, impressing **1122** voters. So much going on here between pippi and Mocha's incredibly ornate costumes and vibrant artistry really gunning for a beautiful collision of candy-like light and colour.

[![](https://assets.ppy.sh/contests/186/banners/AyoLie.jpg)](https://assets.ppy.sh/contests/186/winners/AyoLie.png)

UHHHHHH BRANES. [**AyoLie**](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/29186645) DREW ZOMBIE PIPPI. ZOMBIE MOCHA TOO. UUUURRRRRR. **1115** VOTERS LIKE VERY MUCH. BRAAAAANES. Also, a cute Chirou's chilling too. We're not entirely sure if she's a disembodied head or not, but we're going to pretend she is, because you know, Halloween. Wonderful piece!

[![](https://assets.ppy.sh/contests/186/banners/Haru34_old.jpg)](https://assets.ppy.sh/contests/186/winners/Haru34_old.png)

**1079** voter ghosts are waiting patiently in line to be hugged by [**Haru34_old**](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8806199)'s pippi-mummy amidst a spooky violet-tinged moonscape. Why are these spirits so unbearably cute? It is a mystery.

## peppy's Picks

> Long ago before time was counted, the Dean "peppy" Herbert once uttered deep within the hallowed crypts (of our internal Discord server) that there were too many good entries and not enough votes to go around. For thousands of years (approximately eleven seconds, we counted) did he contemplate, before deciding that he would pick a selection of his favorite entries to join our finalists on the main menu anyway. We've since discovered that if you gave him triple the number of ordinary votes, he'd still run out of them somehow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Long ago before time was counted, the Dean "peppy" Herbert once uttered deep within the hallowed crypts (of our internal Discord server) that there were too many good entries and not enough votes to go around. For thousands of years (approximately eleven seconds, we counted) did he contemplate, before deciding to invoke his coveted power of *The Pick*, and select his favorite entries to join our finalists on the main menu anyway. We've since discovered that if you gave him triple the number of ordinary votes, he'd still run out of them somehow.
```

more lore-accurate :fire:

> Long ago before time was counted, the Dean "peppy" Herbert once uttered deep within the hallowed crypts (of our internal Discord server) that there were too many good entries and not enough votes to go around. For thousands of years (approximately eleven seconds, we counted) did he contemplate, before deciding that he would pick a selection of his favorite entries to join our finalists on the main menu anyway. We've since discovered that if you gave him triple the number of ordinary votes, he'd still run out of them somehow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Long ago before time was counted, the Dean "peppy" Herbert once uttered deep within the hallowed crypts (of our internal Discord server) that there were too many good entries and not enough votes to go around. For thousands of years (approximately eleven seconds, we counted) did he contemplate, before deciding that he would pick a selection of his favourite entries to join our finalists on the main menu anyway. We've since discovered that if you gave him triple the number of ordinary votes, he'd still run out of them somehow.
```

Thus, the Picks were born. And now, we all benefit.

[![](https://assets.ppy.sh/contests/186/banners/nhyogu.jpg)](https://assets.ppy.sh/contests/186/winners/nhyogu.png)

Normal Chirou. Orange Chirou. Evil Chirou. [**nhyogu**](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7430439) Chirou. Orange Chirou. Evil Chirou. Orange Chirou. **EVIL CHIROU.**

[![](https://assets.ppy.sh/contests/186/banners/Christi_Anna.jpg)](https://assets.ppy.sh/contests/186/winners/Christi_Anna.png)

> [**Christi_Anna**](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11016739) gathered forth an assembly of mascots most stylish, including pippi, Chirou, Yuzu, the warring twins (Mani and Mari) plus Mocha and a don to enjoy some candelit Halloween festivities. Look at the cat!

Reviewer: almost thought this was just another word i hadn't heard about but nope

![image](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/assets/36758269/fea716bf-b7ab-446f-a078-dbe7c55da929)

```suggestion
[**Christi_Anna**](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11016739) gathered forth an assembly of mascots most stylish, including pippi, Chirou, Yuzu, the warring twins (Mani and Mari) plus Mocha and a don to enjoy some candlelit Halloween festivities. Look at the cat!
```

[![](https://assets.ppy.sh/contests/186/banners/Amythenia.jpg)](https://assets.ppy.sh/contests/186/winners/Amythenia.png)

> [**Amythenia**](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/19931859)'s witch pippi blazes along the latest experimental osu! mania key mode, which is so long that it quite literally comes from the moon. We did the math, and it'd be about *20.666 billion keys*, assuming the average width of a piano key. That's a lot of keys, almost enough to match the amount of cute going on in this piece. There's a pumpkin don too!

Reviewer: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Musical_keyboard

> **Modern piano keyboards ordinarily have an octave span of 164–165 mm** (6.46–6.50 in), resulting in the width of black keys averaging 13.7 mm (0.54 in) and white keys about 23.5 mm (0.93 in) at the base, disregarding space between keys.

![image](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/assets/36758269/f6578f7c-4d4a-4e0f-bf39-127f7346e044)

```suggestion
[**Amythenia**](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/19931859)'s witch pippi blazes along the latest experimental osu!mania key mode, which is so long that it quite literally comes from the moon. We did the math, and it'd be about *27 billion keys*, assuming the average width of a piano key. That's a lot of keys, almost enough to match the amount of cute going on in this piece. There's a pumpkin don too!
```

Author: calculated using average millimeter width for black and white keys (186.mm)

Author: ok i don't think we need to go this hard on a 3 word haha funny quibble, i'll change to 28bil

[![](https://assets.ppy.sh/contests/186/banners/sleepysheeps.jpg)](https://assets.ppy.sh/contests/186/winners/sleepysheeps.png)

[**sleepysheeps**](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/10868930) very much woke the Dean "peppy" Herbert up with this adorable chibi-fied wolfgirl pippi and warlock Yuzu roaming the Hallow's Eve streets in search of delicious candy.

> [![](https://assets.ppy.sh/contests/186/banners/The_Seraph.jpg)](https://assets.ppy.sh/contests/186/winners/The_Seraph.png)

Reviewer: https://assets.ppy.sh/contests/186/winners/The_Seraph.png returns 404

> [**The Seraph**](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/30000000) plays a dangerous game with pippi, Mocha, Mari and Chirou all engaged in spooky ouija board readings. Mocha is being a bit of a wuss, but when the board spelled out 'HARUMAC--' only moments ago, can you really blame her?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[**The Seraph**](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/30000000) plays a dangerous game with pippi, Mocha, Mari and Chirou all engaged in spooky ouija board readings. Mocha is being a bit of a wuss, but when the board spelled out "HARUMAC—" only moments ago, can you really blame her?
```

*Fun extra fact: The Seraph is our 30 millionth user! You don't see that every day!*

---

A huge thank you to everyone who took the time to send in art or spend their votes — you're the reason these contests always end up such a blast! The finalists listed above will all receive 3 months of osu!supporter to commemorate their spooky spectacles, and the top 3 have been awarded bespoke profile badges of their prize-winning creations.

[**You can download a zip file containing all of the Halloween 2023 Finalists and peppy's Picks in full size here!**](https://assets.ppy.sh/contests/186/Halloween2023Finalists.zip)

> From all of us here at the osu!team, we wish you a happy Halloween! Enjoy!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From all of us here at the osu! team, we wish you a happy Halloween! Enjoy!
```
